JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight, the
longest war
just got longer. President Obama
announces
a setback in withdrawals from
Afghanistan,
leaving 8,400 U.S. troops to
combat a resurgent
Taliban.
Then, we continue our series
Fault Lines,
an inside look at the crippling
challenges
facing the government of
Ukraine.
And parents finally find
treatment for children's
epilepsy with medical marijuana,
but unclear
science and stigma threaten this
source of
relief.
DR. ELIZABETH THIELE,
Massachusetts General
Hospital: Sometimes, the batch
will be effective,
will make the seizures better.
Sometimes,
the next month, it will be
worse, the seizures
will get worse. So, I don't feel
comfortable
prescribing something that I
don't understand
better than that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Republicans in
the U.S. House
of Representatives are going to
investigate
the FBI's inquiry into Hillary
Clinton's e-mail
practices. They announced today
that FBI Director
James Comey will testify
tomorrow on why he
recommended no criminal charges
be filed.
Attorney General Loretta Lynch
will be called
before the Congress next week.
We will focus
on the reasoning behind the
FBI's decision
later in the program.
A Republican gun and anti-terror
bill has
run into trouble in the House.
It bars gun
sales to anyone on a terror
watch list if
prosecutors can prove probable
cause of a
potential crime. Some 40 members
of the Freedom
Caucus came out against it
today, even though
the National Rifle Association
endorsed a
similar bill in the Senate. That
leaves House
Speaker Paul Ryan without the
votes to pass
the measure for now.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
We have members from both sides
of the aisle
who want to make improvements,
who want to
make changes to the bill. We
want to make
sure we get it right. The last
thing we're
going to do is rush something to
the floor
that we don't have right. And,
again, this
matters to us. This is the
Constitution. This
means we get this right. We do
not want to
violate a citizen's due process
rights.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, House
Democrats
called again for much stronger
gun legislation.
Congressman John Lewis of
Georgia spoke at
a Capitol rally today.
REP. JOHN LEWIS (D), Georgia: We
cannot be
patient. We have come to that
point where
we're trying to say to members
of Congress,
all of our members, you must do
something.
You must act, and act now. Not
tomorrow, but
now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Democrats staged
a sit-in on
the House floor last month, but
so far, Speaker
Ryan has turned aside their
demands for votes.
A long-awaited report today
painted a damning
picture of Britain's march to
war with Iraq
in 2003. The
government-commissioned probe
found the legal basis for
military action
was "far from satisfactory." It
concluded
that Britain joined the war
effort before
all peaceful options had been
exhausted, and
then Prime Minister Tony Blair
overestimated
his ability to influence U.S.
policy.
But Blair today stood by his
decisions.
TONY BLAIR, Former British Prime
Minister:
Some of the intelligence has
turned out to
be wrong. The planning wasn't
done properly.
I have to accept those
criticisms. I accept
responsibility for them, but I
think people
want me to go one step further,
and this is
my problem. It's a very
fundamental problem,
and I know it causes a lot of
difficulty,
even with people who might
support me otherwise.
They say, no, we want you to
apologize for
the decision. I can't do that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: British combat
forces left
Iraq in 2009, after losing 179
dead.
In Syria, the military announced
a unilateral
three-day truce to mark the end
of the Muslim
holy month of Ramadan. State TV
showed Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad at
prayer services
in Homs. Government forces
recaptured the
city earlier this year. Rebel
groups said
fighting continued elsewhere.
A judge in South Africa
sentenced Paralympian
Oscar Pistorius today to six
years in prison
for murdering his girlfriend in
2013. The
double amputee could have gotten
15 years.
Pistorius stood silently in the
court in Pretoria,
as a judge handed down the
sentence. She called
him -- quote -- "a fallen hero."
Back in this country, a
congressional commission
reports the Veterans Affairs
health care system
is still plagued by -- quote --
"profound
deficiencies." It finds quality
of care differs
widely, and that veterans still
face long
waits. The findings come two
years after revelations
that VA officials falsified
paperwork about
wait times.
And European markets slipped
again, amid concerns
about Britain leaving the E.U.,
but Wall Street
made modest progress. The Dow
Jones industrial
average gained 78 points to
close at 17918.
The Nasdaq rose 36 points, and
the S&P 500
added 11.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
protests
break out in Baton Rouge after
video of another
police shooting emerges; what's
driving the
president to keep more troops in
Afghanistan;
a deeper look at the legal
standard used in
the Clinton e-mail
investigation; and much
more.
The U.S. Justice Department has
opened a civil
rights investigation into
another police shooting,
this time in Baton Rouge,
Louisiana. Yesterday,
37-year-old Alton Sterling was
confronted
and shot by an officer
responding to a disturbance
call. The city's police chief
said Sterling
had a gun at the time.
But a cell phone video that
caught part of
the altercation and was widely
viewed on social
media led many to ask whether
the shooting
was justified.
Here is some of what was seen.
And a warning:
The video is graphic.
Here is some of what was seen.
And a warning:
The video is graphic.
At a press conference today, the
mother of
one of Alton Sterling's children
spoke of
At a press conference today, the
mother of
one of Alton Sterling's children
spoke of
his death.
QUINYETTA MCMILLON, Had Child
With Alton Sterling:
It will not go unnoticed,
especially for the
future. I, for one, will not
rest or not allow
him to be swept in the dirt.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The two officers
involved in
the incident are now on
administrative leave.
Louisiana's Governor John Bel
Edwards called
the video disturbing and said he
has a very
serious concern.
Kevin Litten is covering the
story for The
New Orleans Times-Picayune.
Kevin Litten, tell us exactly
what is known
about what happened to Alton
Sterling early
Tuesday morning.
KEVIN LITTEN, The New Orleans
Times-Picayune:
Hi, Judy.
So what we know now is that
Alton Brown -- or
-- I'm sorry -- Alton Sterling
was in a parking
lot of a convenience store in
North Baton
Rouge. It's a well-traveled area
both night
and day, and someone called the
police and
said that someone was
threatening someone
in that parking lot with a gun.
When police responded, they made
contact with
Mr. Sterling and an altercation
ensued. From
what you can see on the video,
they apparently
had Mr. Sterling on the ground.
And during
that altercation on the ground,
shots were
fired at Mr. Sterling, and he
died very soon
after of his injuries.
What's unclear right now is
whether or not
Mr. Sterling actually did have a
gun. There
was a witness report that said
that police
removed the gun from him, but at
a press conference
later today, the police wouldn't
confirm whether
he had a weapon. So I believe
it's going to
be a key part of the
investigation that the
FBI is looking at.
The other thing we learned today
is that there's
some questionable video from the
body cameras
that the police had. There is
questions about
whether or not it's actually
going to be able
to be used. Apparently, both
officers lost
the body cam or it fell off
during that altercation,
but we obviously had the video
that you just
showed, and that is what is
really driving
much of the anger in this city.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
you have
done some reporting about Alton
Sterling,
his life, who he was?
KEVIN LITTEN: Yes, I just got
back from meeting
with someone who runs a
transitional housing
complex that's for -- many
times, for offenders
that are being released from
prison or trying
to get back on their feet.
So my understanding is Mr.
Sterling was a
sex offender. He had been
released for about
six months. But he really was on
the right
track. The person that I spoke
to said Mr.
Sterling was one of the good
ones and never
had issues with him, rent was
always on time,
loved to cook for the men that
he lived with.
Red beans and rice was his
favorite dish to
cook.
And he was spending time with
his children.
That was really, it sounded,
Brooke, to me,
what he was up to in the six
months that he
had been released. He was
working a part-time
job as a cook. He was selling
these C.D.s
sort of as a little side
entrepreneurial gig.
And in the other time that he
had, he was
trying to see his kids.
And as you can see from the
emotional reaction
from his son in that
heartbreaking press conference
today, there was certainly a
closeness that
he was able to have with his
children. And
I believe he wanted to stay on
the right track
to continue to be a part of
their lives.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right, Kevin
Litten with
The New Orleans Times-Picayune,
we thank you.
KEVIN LITTEN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Our nation's
longest war just
got longer. The Obama
administration had hoped
to cut the number of U.S.
service personnel
in Afghanistan, currently at
10,000, in half
by the end of the year.
But, today, the president said
increased threats
will put the number at 8,400.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
We have to deal with the
realities of the
world as it is. And we can't
forget what's
at stake in Afghanistan.
This is where al-Qaida is trying
to regroup.
This is where ISIL continues to
try to expand
its presence. If these
terrorists succeed
in regaining areas and camps
where they can
train and plot, they will
attempt more attacks
against us. We cannot allow that
to happen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hari Sreenivasan
is in our
New York studios to explore why
this decision
was made and what it means.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And we get
that from Seth
Jones, director of the
International Security
and Defense Policy Center at the
RAND Corporation.
He's written extensively about
the Afghan
conflict, and has served as an
adviser to
the special operations forces
commander in
Afghanistan.
So, Seth, the difference between
the numbers,
8,400 to 5,500, why the decision
now?
SETH JONES, Senior Political
Scientist, RAND
Corporation: Well, I think it
reflects a bit
of a collaboration between the
military, which
wanted higher numbers -- the
numbers came
down from just under 10,000.
They wanted those
roughly the same or something
close to that
-- and the president, which had
asked for
about 5,500 or so. This largely
meets up somewhere
in the middle.
So, didn't go down to the levels
the military
feared, but it gives the
president an argument
politically that he continues to
end the U.S.
involvement in the war.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What's that
difference in
real, practical terms? If we
have another
couple thousand troops on the
ground in different
parts of Afghanistan, what does
that mean
to Afghan forces?
SETH JONES: Well, I think the
biggest issue
is if the U.S. had gone down to
5,500, it
would have been mostly what we
call kinetic
operations, strikes against
al-Qaida, Islamic
State and other groups, a little
bit of Taliban.
With the numbers we're talking
about now,
8,400, there's an ability to do
train, advise
and assist of Afghan forces out
in the field,
so this gives the military a
little bit more
wiggle room to train Afghan
forces out in
the field and back in their
barracks.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This is not --
as you said,
this isn't what the military
wanted, so does
that end up compromising the end
goal here
to get the Afghan forces
standing up as fast
as possible?
SETH JONES: Well, look, I think
this is one
of many factors. This is about a
number of
forces. There are a lot of other
things, the
posture of U.S. forces, which
forces you're
going to put in, whether it's
special operations
or conventional.
I think at this number, it does
allow the
U.S. to do some
training-advising, some strikes
against the Taliban, but a lot
of this is
going to be also outside the
U.S.' control.
It's going to be about the
quality of the
Afghan government. And that's
something the
military won't be able to
control.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And haven't we
recently
kind of loosened the
restrictions on what
American forces are allowed to
do if they're
engaged in combat with the
Taliban or other
forces?
SETH JONES: There have been
restrictions at
least in two senses.
One is who the U.S. can target
on the ground.
For a while, it was largely just
al-Qaida
forces. The U.S. loosened that a
couple of
months ago to include Islamic
State operatives,
mostly in Eastern Afghanistan.
And then also
now to include some senior
Taliban officials.
And we saw that with the
targeting of Mullah
Mansour recently.
There have been a little bit
loosening of
what the U.S. can do in putting
U.S. forces
on the ground in or near a
combat area.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now, the
president said
this is going to be able to
tailor to help
Afghan forces. Is there
something special
that some of our troops are
engaged in when
it comes to training Afghan
military forces?
SETH JONES: Well, forces that
have done the
vast majority of the training,
particularly
the high-end forces in
Afghanistan, like the
commandos, have been U.S.
special forces.
Operational Detachment Alpha is
the ground.
So, having this number, more
than the 5,500
that the president initially
said he wanted
to get down to at the end of
2016, does allow
him to tailor some of the
training to the
higher-end forces who are going
to be really
important in case the Taliban
try to storm,
take and hold a major Afghan
provincial or
even district capital.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And let's talk
a little
bit about the sort of
geopolitical aspect
of it. This comes before the
NATO summit.
SETH JONES: Yes. I think the
timing is a good
one, just before Warsaw.
What this sends is a message to
America's
NATO allies that the U.S. is
going to be committed
at roughly decent levels through
the next
administration. And there are
German forces,
for example, operating in
Northern Afghanistan,
Italians in the west. They're
going to keep
their forces roughly the same
numbers with
the U.S. commitment now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, also,
let's take a
look at the counterweight here.
The president
says that this should indicate
to the Taliban
that really your only way
through this, especially
if we're going to leave more
forces on the
ground, is to get back to the
negotiating
table. Where are those talks
now?
SETH JONES: The negotiations are
still a pretty
infant stage.
The Taliban has not been willing
to do a lot
of serious discussions like what
we have seen
in other conflicts. It's unclear
whether we're
really going to get to this end.
In fact,
only about a quarter or so of
insurgencies
end by a negotiated settlement.
It's clear
the U.S. would like it to end
this way, but
we have to got to really get to
a stalemate,
I think, I think before sides
can actually
get to a settlement.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, finally,
how much is
the shadow of Iraq looming over
these sorts
of decisions, especially in the
last few weeks
and months, where we have seen
such incredible
violence in Iraq?
SETH JONES: I think there's no
question that
the shadow of Iraq hangs over
Afghanistan.
The U.S. decision, sort of black
and white,
to just pull out forces in 2011,
and then
what happens after that
eventually with the
Islamic State takeover of Mosul
and other
places, I think the U.S. is
operating a lot
more cautiously here in
incrementally pulling
out forces, so as to not take
too much risk.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Seth Jones from
the RAND Corporation, thanks so
much.
SETH JONES: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: There is some
breaking news
this evening related to Hillary
Clinton's
handling of e-mails while she
was secretary
of state.
Attorney General Loretta Lynch
will follow
the FBI's recommendation to not
pursue criminal
charges.
She said in a statement -- quote
-- "I received
and accepted their unanimous
recommendation
that the thorough, year-long
investigation
be closed and that no charges be
brought against
any individuals within the scope
of the investigation."
While that appears to put an end
to the prospect
of legal action, Lisa Desjardins
reports on
the political fallout.
LISA DESJARDINS: Candidate
Hillary Clinton
was out stumping for the
presidency on the
Jersey coast today. But the
Democrat was still
taking heat for her time as
secretary of state.
This morning, House Speaker Paul
Ryan slammed
the FBI decision to not
recommend charges
in its probe of Clinton's
private e-mail use,
suggesting the nominee-to-be not
get classified
briefings.
REP. PAUL RYAN (R-WI), Speaker
of the House:
I think the DNI, Clapper, should
deny Hillary
Clinton access to classified
information during
this campaign, given how she so
recklessly
handled classified information.
LISA DESJARDINS: He was asked,
did Clinton
get preferential treatment?
REP. PAUL RYAN: I will let
everybody be the
judge of that. It looks like it
to me.
LISA DESJARDINS: FBI Director
James Comey
is also in Republicans' sights.
The House
Oversight Committee quickly set
up a hearing
for tomorrow where Comey will
testify about
the e-mail case. Attorney
General Loretta
Lynch will appear before another
panel next
week.
Republican presidential hopeful
Donald Trump
pressed the issue on the trail
in North Carolina.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I always felt that Hillary
Clinton would escape
criminal charges for her
dangerous and illegal
behavior, because I always knew,
and I always
see, and it's so sad, that our
system is in
fact rigged. It's totally
rigged, OK?
LISA DESJARDINS: As for team
Clinton, their
day today was spent on offense,
bidding to
move the focus off the e-mail
story. Part
one of her game plan, tackling
student loans.
In a statement, Clinton said she
has taken
a page from Bernie Sanders,
proposing to make
public universities tuition-free
for most
American families.
Part two, confronting Trump's
business record
head-on in a place he knows,
Atlantic City.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
We're standing in front of old
Trump Plaza
Casino and Hotel. Donald Trump
once predicted
it will be the biggest hit yet.
Now it's abandoned.
So, it's fair to ask, since he's
applying
for a job, what in the world
happened here?
LISA DESJARDINS: But as Clinton
and her campaign
fired off their broadsides,
Trump responded
right away in kind. He issued a
statement
saying it was common practice to
-- quote
-- "use bankruptcy proceedings
to ultimately
save jobs." He continued:
"Nobody understands
the economy like I do and no
one, especially
not crooked Hillary Clinton,
will do more
for the economy than I will."
Meanwhile, there's one fewer
person on Trump's
possible V.P. list, the man he
campaigned
with last night. Tennessee
Senator Bob Corker
took himself out of the running.
And amidst
all this, Bernie Sanders met
today behind
closed doors with Democrats in
Congress, pushing
to change the party's
priorities. Some reportedly
booed him for not yet endorsing
Clinton.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we move from
the politics
back to the legal questions
raised by the
FBI's and now the attorney
general's decision
not to recommend criminal
charges be filed.
And we do that with Shannen
Coffin. He is
an attorney in private practice.
He previously
served as a deputy assistant
attorney general
for the Civil Division at the
Department of
Justice and as counsel to Vice
President Cheney.
And Stephen Vladeck, he's a
professor at the
University of Texas School of
Law, where he
focuses on federal jurisdiction,
constitutional
law, and national security law.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Let me start with you, Shannen
Coffin. Do
you agree with the
recommendation of the FBI
director and now the attorney
general that
there not be a criminal
prosecution of Hillary
Clinton?
SHANNEN COFFIN, Former U.S.
Deputy Assistant
Attorney General: No, I don't.
And if you watched Jim Comey's
press conference,
you will see quite a disconnect
between the
10 minutes of discussion of fact
and the recommendation.
What Jim Comey set up was a
violation of federal
law that prohibits the misuse or
mishandling
of classified information
through gross negligence,
and he himself said...
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying he
made that
case of gross negligence?
SHANNEN COFFIN: He made that
case, and he
himself said that this was
extreme negligence,
extreme recklessness in handling
this information.
That is exactly what federal law
prohibits
and criminalizes as a felony.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, to you now,
Stephen Vladeck.
If that's what the federal law
prohibits,
if it's just -- or if the
standard is extreme
negligence, why wasn't that
enough?
STEPHEN VLADECK, University of
Texas School
of Law: Well, I think the
problem is that
Shannen is leaving out the rest
of that same
statute, which doesn't just say
it's a crime
for an official like Secretary
Clinton to
exercise gross negligence in the
handling
of classified information.
It's actually much more
specific. That gross
negligence must somehow lead to
the loss of
classified information,
basically the same
thing as if a courier left a
briefcase full
of classified documents in a
public place.
That's not what happened here.
And so we may very well think
that what Hillary
did should be illegal. The
problem is, is
that the law we're talking
about, Judy, is
99 years old and was not written
to address
this situation.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But your point is
that what
happened here didn't result in
the loss of
classified information?
STEPHEN VLADECK: Well, at the
very least,
we didn't hear anything to that
effect from
Director Comey. And I would like
to think
that if the FBI had discovered
that Secretary
Clinton's servers had been
hacked, that through
her, in Director Comey's words,
extreme carelessness,
some classified information had
fallen into
the wrong hands, I have to think
we would
have heard about that.
Short of that, we may still
think that what
Hillary Clinton did was
careless. We may still
think it was pretty darn stupid,
but the actual
federal statute requires that
the gross negligence
lead to the loss of information.
There's no
claim here, there's no proof
here that that's
what happened.
SHANNEN COFFIN: That's simply
not correct.
The law actually only requires
removal of
the document from its proper
place of custody.
STEPHEN VLADECK: That's not
true. You're conflating
two different statutes.
SHANNEN COFFIN: I'm looking at
the statute
right here, Professor Vladeck.
The statute actually says,
through gross negligence,
permitting a document to be
removed from its
proper place of custody
delivered to anyone
in violation of the...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me just let
-- let him
finish that point, and I then I
will come
back to you.
SHANNEN COFFIN: So, lost -- lost
-- losing
a document certainly can be a
basis for a
violation, but there are other
things that
can happen. Simply removing --
this is 793-F
of the Espionage Act.
JUDY WOODRUFF: OK. And we're not
going to
be able to get into all the --
because we
can't follow that while we're
here.
SHANNEN COFFIN: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But I do want to
come back
to both of you on the standard
that Director
Comey seemed to use yesterday,
and that is
there was no clear evidence that
Secretary
Clinton or her colleagues
intended, intended
to violate the laws. What about
that?
SHANNEN COFFIN: Utterly
irrelevant. Under
this particular statute, gross
negligence
is the standard.
And that means extreme lack of
care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So you're saying
the FBI director
and now the attorney general
have misinterpreted
the law?
SHANNEN COFFIN: Absolutely. It's
plain language.
STEPHEN VLADECK: And I think the
problem with
that, Judy, is that it's plain
language of
a small part of a much larger
provision.
And so I think the issue is,
there is no precedent,
none, for prosecuting, for
convicting a U.S.
government employee because they
discussed
classified information in an
unsecure system
and nothing else.
Unless that information is
somehow lost, unless
it is removed from the
government's possession,
the government has never
prosecuted anyone
under the statute.
(CROSSTALK)
SHANNEN COFFIN: ... the entire
purpose of
the server was to remove this
from the government's
possession.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me ask you
both...
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me move
on to another
related question.
And that is, what has been
raised today is
whether there is a double
standard, whether
there was one standard for
secretary of state
and another for other people.
And, in fact,
Jim Comey said yesterday, the
FBI director,
he said this is not to suggest
that in similar
circumstances a person who
engaged in this
activity would face no
consequences.
He says, to the contrary, those
individuals
are often subject to security or
administrative
sanctions. So...
SHANNEN COFFIN: Right, and there
have been.
Members of the military --
Sergeant Ricky
Roller (ph) was a sergeant at
Marine headquarters
here in town. He removed a
document, accidentally
stuffed it in a bag and
discovered it later
and decided to keep it in a
drawer at his
house and never returned it. He
was prosecuted
under this very statute. He
didn't intend
anything.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What about that,
Stephen Vladeck?
Is there a double standard at
work here?
STEPHEN VLADECK: Well, Judy, I
do think there
is a double standard, but I'm
not sure Hillary's
is the case to make that point.
Shannen's right. We're talking
about a different
section than the one that the
government used
to go after leakers and putative
whistle-blowers.
So I think we can make a very
strong argument
that the government is much
harder on line
officers who disclose classified
information
to someone not authorized to
receive it than
senior officials like General
Petraeus, who
got a slap on the wrist for
disclosing classified
information to his mistress qua
biographer.
There is clearly a double
standard at play
here, but I'm not sure it's
evident, it's
applicable here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let me ask you
both of, finally,
do you see this as the end of
this legal pursuit?
Do you see this case as closed
right now?
SHANNEN COFFIN: Certainly as to
classified
information. The attorney
general's decision
not to prosecute ends this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, no other, no
further recourse?
(CROSSTALK)
SHANNEN COFFIN: No, I don't
think so.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what about
that, Stephen?
STEPHEN VLADECK: I completely
agree. I think
the real question is Congress,
which has been
urged for the better part of 60
years now
to revisit the legal regime
governing mishandling
of classified information, is
finally impelled
to actually look at this
carefully, or whether
it's simply being used to score
political
points.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes. And I know
you were telling
us earlier today you think far
more information
is classified than should be,
but that's another
topic of discussion.
SHANNEN COFFIN: That's a
discussion for another
day. That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It is.
Well, for now, we want to thank
you, Stephen
Vladeck from the University of
Texas Law School,
Shannen Coffin here in
Washington. Thank you
both.
STEPHEN VLADECK: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": a
clean coal
facility fraught with
complications; and the
need for more medical studies on
marijuana.
Ukraine
But first to our series this
week on the conflict
in eastern Europe.
Last night, we reported from the
self-declared
Donetsk People's Republic, where
Moscow-backed
separatists have been fighting
to join Russia.
Tonight, we move inside Ukraine,
where the
government face two fronts,
internal corruption
and the separatists in the east.
Special correspondent Nick
Schifrin, with
the help of the Pulitzer Center
on Crisis
Reporting, begins in the Black
Sea port city
of Odessa.
NICK SCHIFRIN: On the streets of
Odessa, there's
a new sheriff in town and the
new squad car
is a Prius. Their sirens wail
when they see
a routine traffic violation.
MAN (through translator): What
is that?
NICK SCHIFRIN: But these days,
nothing about
Ukraine is routine.
MAN (through translator): What
are you doing,
brother?
NICK SCHIFRIN: What are you
doing? What are
you doing?
MAN (through translator): What
is that?
NICK SCHIFRIN: We're with them.
Relax.
MAN (through translator):
They're filming
me, not you.
NICK SCHIFRIN: They really don't
like our
cameras. The police try and calm
them down.
It doesn't work.
MAN (through translator): What
is that then?
MAN (through translator):
They're filming
my work.
MAN (through translator): So,
why are they
looking at me?
NICK SCHIFRIN: Odessa's been
compared to Chicago
under al Capone, full of a shady
underworld,
and a former police force in bed
with the
mafia.
LT. OLEKSANDR HRECHANYK, Police
Officer (through
translator): The old police was
an obsolete
version of law enforcement.
There were some
problems, which we're trying to
correct.
NICK SCHIFRIN:
Twenty-nine-year-old Oleksandr
Hrechanyk and his police force
are brand-new,
clothed and paid for by the
West. The old
police force was so corrupt, it
was entirely
replaced.
You look like a New York City
cop. Do you
see the New York Police
Department as a kind
of model for what you're doing?
LT. OLEKSANDR HRECHANYK (through
translator):
Yes, we do. What we're trying to
do is facilitate
people's lives, and help
citizens as much
as we can.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But not all
citizens agree
or welcome the change. This man
said officers
roughed him and falsely accused
him of stealing
this bicycle. Alexander
Smolianinov rushed
to film the cops.
ALEXANDER SMOLIANINOV, Ukraine
(through translator):
We do not entirely trust the
police structure.
Some of the old people have
remained, so the
system hasn't entirely changed.
NICK SCHIFRIN: But the police
accuse Smolianinov
of being part of Odessa's
decades-old mafia
underworld.
LT. OLEKSANDR HRECHANYK (through
translator):
These people often perform
illegal affairs
in buildings and in business.
They're trying
to use this situation here to
throw their
weight around.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Do you think that
there's an
element of this city that
resists the change
that you and your uniform
represents?
LT. OLEKSANDR HRECHANYK (through
translator):
There are people who would like
to keep the
old system.
MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI, Odessa
Governor: This
country had had unchanged elite
for 25 years.
These guys, they miserably
failed the country.
They turned it into the poorest
country in
Europe.
NICK SCHIFRIN: That slightly
awkward trainee
with the new police is Odessa
Governor Mikheil
Saakashvili. One year ago, he
received Ukrainian
citizenship and was appointed to
fight corruption.
He made his name as the
president of the former
Soviet state Georgia, fighting
Russian President
Vladimir Putin. Today, he is
still a thorn
in Russia's side, but his most
pointed criticism
is for fellow Ukrainians.
MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI: I don't
think Putin can
defeat Ukraine. I think Ukraine
can snatch
defeat out of the jaws of
victory. It can
only defeat itself.
Oh, what are you doing here?
Let's go inside.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Saakashvili likes
to give off
a laid-back vibe. He and his
family have embraced
their Ukrainian lives.
But Ukraine's president hired
him to breathe
fire. He accuses the politicians
who have
been running the country of
widespread corruption.
Last December in a cabinet
meeting, he called
the interior minister a thief.
MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (through
translator):
I'm not going to let some thief
who the country
knows is a thief...
NICK SCHIFRIN: What he lacks in
diplomacy,
he makes up for with media
stunts. On a poorly
built road, he set up a tent, so
he could
hold cabinet meetings that
pressure the national
government to pay for road
construction.
MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI: Why it's so
important
to build this road? Because we
-- people have
not seen any difference. If you
in one place
show a difference, it's a window
of opportunity
that will -- is going to kill
the whole corrupt
system.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And what happens
if you fail?
MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI: Ukraine has
no option
to fail, because it will lead to
the disintegration
of the country.
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA, Ukrainian
Civil Servant:
If you have a will from the top,
then it is
possible to fight the
corruption.
NICK SCHIFRIN:
Twenty-six-year-old Yulia
Marushevska
is one of Saakashvili's
lieutenants. She's
a political novice, with
Odessa's hardest
job, cleaning up a notoriously
corrupt customs
house.
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: The Odessa
customs was
the most corrupt customs. The
intelligence
forces, the police, the
prosecutors, they
were just using the possibility
to ask for
money.
NICK SCHIFRIN: So, arms of law
enforcement
were becoming tools of
corruption?
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: Yes.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Tools of the
corrupt society.
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: Yes.
I am the Ukrainian, a native of
Kiev. And
I am now on Maidan.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Two years ago,
she and hundreds
of thousands of Ukrainians
filled Independence
Square, known as the Maidan, to
protest that
old, corrupt society. Her
anti-corruption
call to arms was viewed almost
nine million
times.
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: We want to be
free from
the politicians who work only
for themselves.
On Maidan, I thought that
everything can be
done only with your will and
wish to change.
And now I understood that it is
a huge work,
a huge job to do.
NICK SCHIFRIN: A huge job
because of the scale
of corruption. This is Ukraine's
largest port.
About $40 million per month was
being stolen
by local mafia, local officials,
and national
politicians.
This is going to be the open
customs?
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: Yes, the new
attitude to
business.
NICK SCHIFRIN: To try and fix
that, Marushevska
will soon inaugurate a new
customs terminal
with more automation and
streamlined procedures.
But when you fight corruption,
corruption
fights back.
YULIA MARUSHEVSKA: The
simplification of the
procedures faced great
resistance, and even
persecution from the central
government. It's
war of past and future. We want
future to
happen, and they want to live in
the past.
I think we are fighting two
wars, one war
inside the country, and the
other war in the
east of the country.
NICK SCHIFRIN: So, you have got
enemy forces
this way and right about that
way. So you're
fighting kind of on two sides.
LT. YAN FIDREA, Military
Commander: yes.
NICK SCHIFRIN:
Twenty-two-year-old Lieutenant
Yan Fidrea is a platoon
commander in Ukraine's
other war, on the front lines
near Donetsk.
We are 350 miles east of Odessa.
They fight
in trenches against an enemy
1,500 feet away.
LT. YAN FIDREA (through
translator): Those
woods in front of us, they're
shooting at
us from there.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Their enemy are
Ukrainians
who want to separate from
Ukraine and join
Russia. But they don't call this
a civil war.
LT. YAN FIDREA (through
translator): This
is not a civil war. This is like
a war between
Ukraine and Russia. It's my
country. I'm defending
my country.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Just a few miles
away, the
area known as the Industrial
Zone is the hottest
front. Ukrainian soldiers hide
in a basement
from mortars.
MAN (through translator):
They're aiming directly
at us.
NICK SCHIFRIN: The next morning,
all that's
left of this former industrial
company is
used as cover from bullets. This
front hasn't
moved in more than a year. And
that's left
soldier Masi Nayyam frustrated.
MASI NAYYAM, Ukrainian Soldier
(through translator):
Our guys here are being wounded.
For what?
Since we're being ordered not to
advance.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Those orders are
from Ukraine
and Russia's political
negotiations known
as the Minsk Agreement. They
prevent Ukraine
from advancing, but on the
front, that lack
of progress perpetuates the war.
MASI NAYYAM (through
translator): I don't
see any strategy or planning
about what happens
next. The people don't
understand what we're
doing.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Just a few miles
away, the
town of Avdiivka looks bombed
out. It was
seized by the separatists, and
then taken
back by the Ukrainian military.
Nearby, locals try and maintain
some normalcy.
And the Dikhtyaryov family shows
their support
for Ukraine, and desire to ally
with the West,
on the children's clothes. But
this war has
taken a heavy toll on 9-year-old
Diana and
her mother, Nataliya.
When you hear the bangs and the
noises at
night, are you scared?
NATALIYA DIKHTYARYOV, Ukraine
Resident (through
translator): If I'm awake, I'm
scared, yes.
I think that they don't have any
future here.
I know it sounds really sad. But
the only
major city around here was
Donetsk, which
had all the universities. Now
there's nowhere
to go.
NICK SCHIFRIN: For more than two
years, this
region has been at war. Ukraine
believes it
has no choice. It has to fight
Russia and
corruption simultaneously. But
wars do not
discriminate. They steal
soldiers and children's
futures.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Nick
Schifrin
in Avdiivka, Ukraine.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tomorrow night,
the series
continues with a report from
Estonia, the
NATO nation most vulnerable to
Russian aggression.
The technology known as clean
coal, along
with solar and wind energy, is
central to
the Obama administration's plans
for combating
climate change.
But a new investigation by The
New York Times
questions the ability of this
technology and
a high-profile coal plant to
deliver on its
promise.
William Brangham has the story.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The New York
Times investigation
published this week examines
problem at the
Kemper power plant in Central
Mississippi.
The plant is still under
construction, but
its price tag has run billions
of dollars
over budget. It's the subject of
two federal
investigations and a lawsuit by
Mississippi
rate payers who say they have
been defrauded.
The problems at Kemper also call
into question
the Obama administration's
reliance on this
clean coal technology to fight
climate change.
New York Times investigative
reporter Ian
Urbina wrote the story about
Kemper. And he
joins me now.
So what is clean coal?
IAN URBINA, The New York Times:
It's sort
of the promising notion that we
could still
burn coal, but without so much
pollution.
And behind the promise is
technology that
would allow you in different
versions to pull
carbon out of the emissions from
coal plants.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So that it
doesn't get up
into the atmosphere and drive
climate change?
IAN URBINA: Correct.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And was the --
is the idea
that the technology is proven,
but we just
don't know how to do it
economically? What's
the question been about it?
IAN URBINA: Yes, so the
technology, as you
say, is proven, and we know how
to make it
work. The challenge is, can we
scale it up,
so to move it from the model
stage to big
enough plants to make a
difference, and can
we do so affordably?
The affordably is really where
it gets complicated,
because that means can we do so
in a fashion
that's cheaper than natural gas?
Can we do
so quickly enough so that the
prices don't
change and then, by the time you
get the plant
online, it's no longer the same
price tag?
And this has been the big
stumbling block,
with Kemper included.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, your
reporting focuses
on this plant in Mississippi.
It's owned by
Southern Energy. What is it
that's gone wrong
down there?
IAN URBINA: A bunch of things.
Mostly, it's way over budget and
past deadline.
There was a certain amount of
hubris, it seems,
on the front end of this
project, where they
promised the moon, and -- in
terms of how
quickly they could build a plant
of this size,
and they quickly fell behind
schedule and
overbudget. And that problem got
compiled
by their competitor, which is
natural gas.
The price for it fell through
the floor and
just kept falling, and so this
plant became
less and less attractive with
time. And then
what our investigation revealed
was that the
problems ran deeper inside the
plant, ranging
from mismanagement and
potentially fraud,
in the sense that the managers
who ran the
plant were covering up problems
as they encountered
them and continuing to promise
things that
they couldn't provide.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Some of your
reporting comes
via a whistle-blower named Brett
Wingo. What
is it that he is alleging that
was the problem?
IAN URBINA: So, Brett Wingo is a
mid-level
manager who was hired by the
company back
in 2008-2009.
In the beginning, he was sort of
a real loyal
pitch man for the project. With
time, Brett
became frustrated with what he
says was mismanagement
and overstated promises on how
quickly and
how affordably the project could
be accomplished.
And he attempted to work from
inside the project
in the plant to raise these
concerns, and
after a while, he decided to go
public.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Is Kemper
really emblematic
of the problems of clean coal,
or is this
just an isolated case?
IAN URBINA: Every president
going back roughly
back to Reagan has had sort of a
pet project
that they dumped a lot of
federal subsidies
into, and sort of hoping that
they could burn
coal cleaner, and all of them
have turned
out to be boondoggles.
And so, this one, the jury's
still out. The
plant may still come online in
the next couple
of months, and, ultimately, they
could pay
down their debt and produce
cheap electricity
and clean electricity. But, so
far it's, again,
two years past deadline, $4
billion over budget,
and still not online. So it's
not looking
good.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What do these
problems specifically
at this plant mean for the Obama
administration
in their attempt to fight
climate change partly
through this type of technology?
IAN URBINA: Well, so the
administration put
a lot of political Capitol into
this project.
The EPA administrator, the
current EPA administrator,
has pointed to this project as a
poster child
of what we should hope for. So,
politically,
it's embarrassing. But, just
more practically,
if we're going -- we being the
country -- are
going to achieve the goals that
were set out
in Paris in our climate change
goals, we have
to figure out how to handle the
fact that
25 percent of the world's
electricity comes
from coal plants.
So we can't pull those offline
tomorrow. And
we have to figure out how to
make them burn
cleanly. And so this was the
sort of shining
hope that we might have figured
that out,
and it doesn't seem to be
panning out.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We reached out
to Southern
Company for a comment, and a
spokesperson
told us that your article was a
-- quote -- "negative
recap of old news," that you
were set on creating
a -- quote -- "preconceived
narrative" and
that Southern Company was trying
to finish
this in a right way, and you
didn't address
that.
With regards to the
whistle-blower, Brett
Wingo, they said that they, the
company, had
done two investigations into his
claims, one
internally, one externally, and
that -- quote
-- "His concerns were
unsubstantiated and
not otherwise supported by the
facts."
What's your response to that?
IAN URBINA: So, there are two
federal investigations
under way, one of them quite
serious about
potential corporate fraud, by
the Securities
and Exchange Commission on these
various issues.
And that's ongoing.
There are two lawsuits, rather
large lawsuits.
The project and the company have
had two major
credit downgrades. So I think
the reality
is that this is not The New York
Times raising
these concerns. It's more The
New York Times
attempting to figure out what
actually went
wrong.
Everyone knows that things have
gone wrong.
Now, again, whether Southern can
pull this
project out of its nosedive and
turn things
around, that remains to be seen.
But the question
even then still remains, will
they be able
to keep the plant online? Will
to capture as much carbon as
they promised?
And who's going to pay for the
$4 billion
tab that's still there,
taxpayers, investors,
the company?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right, Ian
Urbina of
The New York Times, thank you
very much.
IAN URBINA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A big question:
What are the
benefits or drawbacks of medical
marijuana?
In some cases, the law is ahead
of the research.
Miles O'Brien explores. It's
part of our weekly
reports on the Leading Edge of
science.
MILES O'BRIEN: A sunny day, a
scooter, and
a little boy tearing up the
driveway, a simple
pleasure for him, a cherished
moment for his
parents.
LENNY LOPEZ, Father: I see him
do it, and
I said, I can't believe he's
riding a scooter
by himself. It's not a big deal
for most people.
That's what kids do. But for us
that's a big
deal.
MILES O'BRIEN: Lenny And Amy
Lopez's adopted
5-year-old son, Isaias, has
epilepsy Dravet's
syndrome, which besets its young
victims with
incessant seizures.
How often would that happen?
LENNY LOPEZ: In the beginning,
it happened
all the time. He would have
hundreds. So...
AMY LOPEZ, Mother: And it's all
day long.
LENNY LOPEZ: He wouldn't be able
to play.
He wouldn't be able to eat. He
would just
fall. And then when he would
have like the
more severe ones, he would
literally just
like shut off and fall down and
smack his
head.
MILES O'BRIEN: Amy and Lenny
noticed a near-instant
improvement for Isaias after
this became a
part of their daily routine, a
squirt of cannabis
oil. It is mostly CBD, a
chemical in marijuana
that doesn't alter
consciousness.
Isaias' seizures have reduced in
intensity
and frequency by about 80
percent.
AMY LOPEZ: What about Rocky?
We went through a couple of
different strains,
and then just the dose, how much
do you give,
what time of day do you give it,
so definitely
trial and error.
MILES O'BRIEN: For all intents
and purposes,
Amy and Lenny are experimenting
with their
sick little boy. It is a
calculated risk born
of desperation and fear.
911 OPERATOR: Nine-one-one
recorded line.
LENNY LOPEZ: Hi. I'm calling
about -- my son
is having a seizure.
It's a helpless feeling,
because, no matter
what you do, nothing seems to be
working.
AMY LOPEZ: When your child is
turning blue,
and he's not responding to you,
and you know
he's not getting any air, like
my husband
said, you don't know if that's
-- that's it,
that's the last one. So you just
hope and
pray that he pulls through it.
MILES O'BRIEN: They tried
conventional pharmaceuticals
designed to curb the seizures.
But the side
effects were horrible. They made
him either
unresponsive, or caused him to
act out and
hurt himself. It wasn't a real
solution.
DR. SANJAY GUPTA, CNN: Our
journey begins
here in this small-town home.
MILES O'BRIEN: Then, one day,
they saw the
CNN documentary "Weed." It told
the story
of a family in Colorado using a
high CBD strain
of cannabis to treat their
daughter's Dravet's
epilepsy. The marijuana was
working.
PAIGE FIGI, Mother: She didn't
have a seizure
that day, and then she didn't
that night, and then she didn't
have one the
next day, and then the next day.
MILES O'BRIEN: Was it like a
revelation?
AMY LOPEZ: Yes, I was like, we
have to get
this. I knew it wasn't legal
here at the time,
but we have to get this.
MILES O'BRIEN: Easier said than
done. The
doctor they had at the time
would have nothing
of it. So they found their way
to a more sympathetic
ear.
DR. ELIZABETH THIELE,
Massachusetts General
Hospital: For the past three
years, I don't
think there's been a single
patient I have
seen that hasn't asked about CBD
or medical
marijuana.
MILES O'BRIEN: Dr. Elizabeth
Thiele is director
of the pediatric epilepsy
program at Massachusetts
General Hospital.
DR. ELIZABETH THIELE: When this
first came
up, I think that there were a
lot of -- I
sometimes use the word haters,
as the medical
profession, I think, wasn't
necessarily welcoming
this at first.
MILES O'BRIEN: But Dr. Thiele
shared in the
Lopezes' frustration, even
though the number
of conventional medications
aimed at treating
epilepsy has more than doubled
in the past
few decades.
DR. ELIZABETH THIELE: Most
children with Dravet
don't respond to the medications
we have.
So there continues to be a
significant unmet
need for epilepsy therapies.
MILES O'BRIEN: While there is
plenty of anecdotal
evidence that cannabis helps
children with
Dravet's, the Drug Enforcement
Administration
classifies marijuana among the
most dangerous
drugs, a Schedule 1 controlled
substance.
As far as the federal government
is concerned,
cannabis has no currently
accepted medical
use and a high potential for
abuse. As a result,
scientists have trouble
accessing the drug
legally to do the research, and
so we know
precious little about the
medicinal value
of marijuana to treat epilepsy,
or anything
else.
That's starting to change. The
British pharmaceutical
company GW is testing a version
of cannabis
oil called Epidiolex. Designed
for children
with seizure disorders, it is
nearly pure
CBD. It's early, but the results
are promising.
If they can be repeated in
larger studies,
Dr. Thiele says it could be a
breakthrough.
For now, she can't even be sure
precisely
what is in the cannabis her
patients are taking.
DR. ELIZABETH THIELE: Sometimes,
the batch
will be effective, will make the
seizures
better. Sometimes, the next
month, it will
be worse, the seizures will get
worse. So,
I don't feel comfortable
prescribing something
that I don't understand better
than that.
NORTON ARBELAEZ, Consultant, New
England Treatment
Access: To grow the
pharmaceutical-grade cannabis
that we're growing, it takes
quite a bit of
effort.
MILES O'BRIEN: Norton Arbelaez
is on a mission
to change this. He is a
consultant for New
England Treatment Access in
Massachusetts,
one of 25 states and the
District of Columbia
that have voted to make
medicinal marijuana
legal.
He gave me a tour of NETA's
cultivation and
manufacturing facility, where
they grow about
60 distinct strains of
marijuana. At any given
time, there are 14,000 plants
here at various
stages of development. They work
hard to maintain
precise, consistent conditions.
NORTON ARBELAEZ: So, these are
clones. Initially,
we grew it from seed.
MILES O'BRIEN: What's the
advantage of cloning,
as opposed to planting seeds?
NORTON ARBELAEZ: Well, that we
have control
of the genetic stock. The
patients are looking
for a very specific strain to
deal with a
very specific type of illness,
so we want
to be able to reproduce that
each and every
time.
MILES O'BRIEN: Strains are
identified by color.
And every bar coded batch is
tested by a third
party before it is sold to
patients.
But analyzing batches of
marijuana for a handful
of chemicals only scratches the
surface. A
Massachusetts-based genomic
testing firm,
Courtagen Life Sciences, is
trying to learn
the genetic makeup of various
strains of marijuana.
KEVIN MCKERNAN, Courtagen Life
Sciences: What
we do down here in the
laboratory is run some
robotics that then go into the
genome and
extract the regions that we want
to sequence.
MILES O'BRIEN: Kevin McKernan is
the chief
scientific officer. He hopes to
inject some
objective science into the
conversation.
KEVIN MCKERNAN: It's about as
scientific as
a wine, oaky, woody, earthy. And
if we want
medicine to absorb this, we need
to start
talking about the cannabis in
the language
that physicians like, which is
about genotypes,
not woody, earthy, oaky smells.
MILES O'BRIEN: They have
sequenced 600 strains
of marijuana so far.
But what are we seeing here?
KEVIN MCKERNAN: So what you're
looking at
is the genetic distance between
different
cannabis strains and the length
of this line.
If you follow this in and out is
the length
of the genetic distance between
these. And
then each of these names are the
names of
the strains.
MILES O'BRIEN: After all these
years, this
familiar plant remains a
mystery. Marijuana
contains more than 400
chemicals, including
80 cannabinoids.
Scientists are not sure how they
may interact
with each other to provide some
medicinal
benefit. They are trying to
understand if
isolating the compounds works,
or if there
is a so-called entourage effect.
KEVIN MCKERNAN: I think it's
this entourage
effect, that the other compounds
that are
there in the whole plant extract
are doing
something we don't understand
yet. There's
something about isolating the
compounds that
seems to not replicate what the
plant does
on its own.
MILES O'BRIEN: The real answers
won't be forthcoming
unless research dollars flow and
more human
trials begin. But that won't
happen until
the federal government
reconsiders whether
marijuana appropriately belongs
in the same
category as heroin.
The Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention
says there has never been a
documented overdose
death from marijuana.
So, Amy and Lenny Lopez see much
more benefit
than risk.
AMY LOPEZ: He makes us...
LENNY LOPEZ: It's definitely
worth it.
AMY LOPEZ: He makes my blood
flow.
LENNY LOPEZ: Yes.
AMY LOPEZ: That kid make me
breathe. I would
do anything for him.
MILES O'BRIEN: The proof is in
the scooter.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," Lowell,
Massachusetts.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The DEA has been
evaluating
proposals to loosen the
classification of
cannabis, which would make it
easier for scientists
and doctors to do research. But
the agency
missed its own July deadline,
and it is not
clear when there will be a
decision.
In his next piece, Miles will
speak with the
Israeli chemist whose pioneering
work into
medical cannabis 30 years ago is
now being
embraced by the scientific
mainstream.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.